---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Overview 

Website content is created with a combination of specialized forms (content types) and components (text, images, catalog promos, etc.).
- Content types are special content entry forms that are customized for specific types of content.
- Components are like different LEGO bricks that you stack together to make a page. Instead of one giant body field that contains all the text, images, etc., each content type has a field for components. You can add multiple components to a page. Each component is treated as its own block and the blocks stack on top of one another.

## Content Types

Content Type | Description
------------ | -------------
Basic Page | Use basic page for your static content, such as an 'About Us' page.
Blog Entry | Use to create blog entries and tag them by section.
Branch | Use to add new library locations to the website.
Collection | Use Collection to add collection pages for Archives and Special Collections.
Database | Use Database to create a new database listing.
Event | Use the Event content type for major event series.
External Resource | Create a node that redirects user to an external site. Node appears in search results.
Internship Opportunity | Use Internship Opportunity to post internships listings to the site.
Landing Page | Use landing page to structure an overview page for a given topic (blog, services, events, etc.)
News | Use News to add press release and media hit content to the Press Room page.
Person | Use Person to create a new person profile on the site.
Podcast Episode | Use Podcast Episode to add a new episode for a podcast series.
Service | Use Service to create a new library service. Will add */service* to the URL automatically.

## Components

### Content Components

Component | Description
------------ | -------------
Block | Site admins use to add views, blocks generated by Components JS, and other custom blocks.
Blog Swim | Add a horizontal list of blog posts filtered to a single topic. Content should directly relate to the content on the page.
Block | Site admins use to add views, blocks generated by Components JS, and other custom blocks.
Blog Swim | Add a horizontal list of blog posts filtered to a single topic. Content should directly relate to the content on the page.
Calendar Widget | Add a vertical (orange) or horizontal catalog widget to a page.
Call to Action | Add a call to action with image, text, a primary CTA link, and an optional secondary CTA link.
Catalog Promo | Promo block with a cover image, title, author, and Place Hold button.
Catalog Widget (Spotlight) | Horizontal scrolling catalog list. Useful for showing large numbers of titles in a blog post or on a page.
Catalog Widget Grid | Add a grid of single-cover catalog widgets to a page. Specifically designed for the Books Movies Music pages.
Contact Info | Add contact info or staff listings to a page or sidebar.
Database Feature List | Add a horizontal list of databases to a page filtered to a single topic. Content should directly relate to the content on the page. Filter by age and topic. <br /><br />Logic is as follows: TOPIC: Downloads & Streaming (OR) Ebooks (AND) AUDIENCE: Preschool (OR) Elementary (OR) Middle School
Hero | Add a splash image, like you see at the top of event pages.
iFrame Widget | Add widgets from third-party sources (not the catalog) like Emma or JotForm.
Jump Menu Grid | Currently only used for the menus on the Events and Databases A-Z pages. Not currently available to add a menu to a bookmark down the page.
Media | Add Images, Slideshows, embedded Audio, or embedded Video. Does not allow captions at this time.
Poll | Add a multiple choice poll to a blog post.
Sponsor List | Add a sponsor block to the bottom of a post. Sponsors must already be added to the Sponsor taxonomy in order to display in the Sponsor List component.
Table | Use when displaying structured data.
Text | Add text, headings, links, block quote style. You can also add images and video to the text component.
Text + Image | Add text and an image side-by-side. A toggle setting determines if the image is to the left or right.

### Layout Components

Component | Description
------------ | -------------
Promotion | Layout component that allows you to place promo blocks in 2- or 3-columns. Designed for use on the homepage to layout the 3 promo rows.
One Column | A layout component that allows you to fill the full-width of the page.
Two Column | A layout component that allows you to display information side by side. One column is 2/3 width on full screen and the second column is 1/3 width on full screen. The smaller column is always on the right.
